
- [083.md](processed/other/portal-receive-onlyEOA/083.md): #other
  - **Description:** receive should have onlyEOA
  - **Reason:** We had onlyEOA on the legacy and bedrock L1StandardBridge methods. It seems like we should have it here too. However I don't think this meet the contest criteria because it's user-error, not an exploitable vuln.
#action: Ensure that the `receive()` method on the L1 and L2 StandardBridge are `onlyEOA`

---

0xdeadbeef

medium

# OptimismPortal does not prevent contracts from depositing funds directly to it

## Summary

OptimismPortal has a feature that helps EOAs to easily transfer funds to L2 by just transferring ETH to the contract.
EOAs can directly transfer funds to OptimismPortal to receive it in L2.
It mentions in the document that if contracts will transfer funds to the contract, it will be lost due to aliasing.

There is no enforcement on implementation to validate that only EOA has called the `receive` function.

## Vulnerability Detail

The `receive` function in `OptimismPortal` does not enforce EOA calls only. 
```solidity
    receive() external payable {
        depositTransaction(msg.sender, msg.value, RECEIVE_DEFAULT_GAS_LIMIT, false, bytes(""));
    }
```

Contracts should be prevented from calling this function 

## Impact

Contracts/smart wallets/vaults depositing directly to `OptimismPortal` will lose their funds

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/OptimismPortal.sol#L140-L142

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Consider adding the following modifier to the `receive` function
```solidity
    modifier onlyEOA() {
        require(
            !Address.isContract(msg.sender),
            "OptimismPortal: function can only be called from an EOA"
        );
        _;
    }
```