
- [228.md](0-system-findings/1-processed/2-low/228.md): #low
  - **Description:** The challenger shouldn't be able to delete finalized L2 outputs
  - **Reason:** The reporter is correct that the challenger should not be able to delete finalized L2 outputs in an Optimistic rollup. This said, we have posted numerous times that Optimism is currently secured by the multisig (see: security docs, convention talks, etc.), and not all specifications of an Optimistic rollup currently apply to Bedrock.
  - **Action:** #action At some point in the near future, we should prevent the `L2OutputOracle`'s `deleteL2Outputs` function from allowing the challenger to delete output proposals that have passed the finalization period.

---

unforgiven

medium

# [Medium] Challenger shouldn't be able to delete finalized L2 outputs

## Summary
Proposer sends the L2 Output roots to the L2OutputOracle contract in the L1 and users be able to withdraw their funds by proving their withdrawal message against the L2 Output roots after the finalization period. Whenever proposer sends wrong L2 output root and Challenger can remove them from the L2OutputOracle state and users need to prove their withdrawals again for the new L2 output roots but Challenger shouldn't be able to remove L2 outputs that their finalization time has passed, after the finalization time that L2 output considered valid and some users was withdraw by proving to that L2 output.

## Vulnerability Detail
This is `deleteL2Outputs()` code in the L2OutputOracle:
```solidity
    /**
     * @notice Deletes all output proposals after and including the proposal that corresponds to
     *         the given output index. Only the challenger address can delete outputs.
     *
     * @param _l2OutputIndex Index of the first L2 output to be deleted. All outputs after this
     *                       output will also be deleted.
     */
    // solhint-disable-next-line ordering
    function deleteL2Outputs(uint256 _l2OutputIndex) external {
        require(
            msg.sender == CHALLENGER,
            "L2OutputOracle: only the challenger address can delete outputs"
        );

        // Make sure we're not *increasing* the length of the array.
        require(
            _l2OutputIndex < l2Outputs.length,
            "L2OutputOracle: cannot delete outputs after the latest output index"
        );

        uint256 prevNextL2OutputIndex = nextOutputIndex();

        // Use assembly to delete the array elements because Solidity doesn't allow it.
        assembly {
            sstore(l2Outputs.slot, _l2OutputIndex)
        }

        emit OutputsDeleted(prevNextL2OutputIndex, _l2OutputIndex);
    }
```
As you can see there is no check that the specified output index is not finalized and challenger can remove any L2 output but As the Optimism rollup L2 chains work, challenger can only challenge a L2 output root for specified time and after that time the output is assumed valid and shouldn't be able to be removed.
by doing this challenger can delay withdrawals for those finalized L2 outputs and also finished withdrawals proofs would be invalid as their L2 output index has no L2 output root and the new L2 output root can be change too.

## Impact
The implementation is not complaint with Optimistic rollups and challenger shouldn't have access to delete finalized L2 outputs.
it can cause users to have unexpected delays and fails for their withdrawals and also other 3rd party on-chain or off-chain projects can fail to work properly with the protocol if challenger removes finalized L2 output roots.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/3f4b3c328153a8aa03611158b6984d624b17c1d9/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/L2OutputOracle.sol#L120-L148

## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
check that the removed L2 outputs are not finalized and they are in the finalization delay time.