
- [239.md](0-system-findings/1-processed/2-low/239.md): #low
  - **Description:** Validate that the `SUBMISSION_INTERVAL` > `L2_BLOCK_TIME` in the `L2OutputOracle` upon deployment of the `L2OutputOracle`.
  - **Reason:** The reporter claims that the submission interval being less than the `L2_BLOCK_TIME` will hault the `op-proposer` process and give incorrect results. This misconfiguration does not cause incorrect results to be posted. However, because the `op-proposer` uses the `L2OutputOracle`'s `nextBlockNumber` function in order to determine if it may submit a new checkpoint block, a `SUBMISSION_INTERVAL` of `0` prevents the proposing of outputs (verified on local devnet). It is unlikely that this configuration value would be set to `0`, but we should add a creation-time check to the `L2OutputOracle`'s constructor.
  - **Action:** #action Add a creation-time check to the `L2OutputOracle`'s constructor to ensure that the `SUBMISSION_INTERVAL` > `L2_BLOCK_TIME`. This is a low-effort addition that can prevent misconfigurations in the future.

---

ak1

medium

# L2OutputOracle.sol#L85-L99 : Validate the SUBMISSION_INTERVAL and L2_BLOCK_TIME variables

## Summary
In `L2OutputOracle.sol`, the SUBMISSION_INTERVAL and L2_BLOCK_TIME variables are set and used to decide the submission interval time and L2 block time.

Both parameters are used to decide the time interval at which the l2 block submission need to happen and the time at which the block creation should happen.

Since the L2_BLOCK_TIME is `2 seconds` as mentioned in Optimism document, the SUBMISSION_INTERVAL  should be greater than the L2_BLOCK_TIME.

Creating contract with SUBMISSION_INTERVAL  < L2_BLOCK_TIME  could halt the process and give incorrect results.

## Vulnerability Detail

Refer the summary section.

## Impact

The submission tries to submit with-in the block creation time.
Block creation could happen in less than 2 seconds.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/L2OutputOracle.sol#L85-L99

## Tool used

Manual Review, Optimism documents.

## Recommendation

Ensure that the L2_BLOCK_TIME  > SUBMISSION_INTERVAL . Add this check during contract creation.

Also, we would suggest the team to validate other input parameters which are critical during contract creation.
