
- [249.md](0-system-findings/1-processed/1-false-but-actionable/249.md): #false
  - **Description:** SystemDictator can be front-runned
  - **Reason:** This report is false. In order to prevent the `SystemDictator` from being front-ran during the migration process, we can submit our deployment and initialization transactions in a flashbots bundle.
  - **Action:** Ensure that during the deployment of the `SystemDictator`, we submit our deployment and initialization transactions in a flashbots bundle OR through an atomic create2 deployer that initializes the contract in the same transaction OR add a constructor which calls initialize.

---

xiaoming90

medium

# `SystemDictator` can be front-runned

## Summary

`SystemDictator` contract is one of the key contracts that manage the migration process. The lack of access control on the `SystemDictator.initialize` function might result in the initialization of the `SystemDictator` contract being front-runned.

## Vulnerability Detail

The lack of access control on the `SystemDictator.initialize` function might result in the initialization of the `SystemDictator` contract being front-runned by malicious users.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/deployment/SystemDictator.sol#L148

```solidity
File: SystemDictator.sol
145:     /**
146:      * @param _config System configuration.
147:      */
148:     function initialize(DeployConfig memory _config) public initializer {
149:         config = _config;
150:         currentStep = 1;
151:         __Ownable_init();
152:         _transferOwnership(config.globalConfig.controller);
153:     }
```

## Impact

Malicious users or competitors could attempt to DOS the migration process by front-running the `SystemDictator` contract causing reputation damage, delaying the migration, and causing griefing to the OP team.

It might result in the OP team needing to re-deploy the `SystemDictator` contract during the migration process. 

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/deployment/SystemDictator.sol#L148

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Implement access control on the `initialize` function to ensure only authorized users can call the function.