rvierdiiev

low

# Relayer can call OptimismPortal.proveWithdrawalTransaction and OptimismPortal.finalizeWithdrawalTransaction for his own withdraw

## Summary
Relayer can call OptimismPortal.proveWithdrawalTransaction and OptimismPortal.finalizeWithdrawalTransaction for his own withdraw, however docs says that he should not be able to do that.
## Vulnerability Detail
https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/f30376825c82f62b846590487fe46b7435213d37/specs/withdrawals.md#on-l1
Withdraw documentation states that relayer should not call OptimismPortal.proveWithdrawalTransaction for the withdraws the he created himself.
> 1.A relayer submits the required inputs to the OptimismPortal contract. The relayer need not be the same entity which initiated the withdrawal on L2.

Also same is said about calls of OptimismPortal.finalizeWithdrawalTransaction.
> 5.Once the challenge period has passed, a relayer submits the withdrawal transaction once again to the OptimismPortal contract. Again, the relayer need not be the same entity which initiated the withdrawal on L2.

However there is no such check in both functions, they do not check that caller of function is not initiator of withdraw on L2. 

## Impact
Relayer can submit withdrawal tx to OptimismPortal, when he is initiator of withdraw on L2.
## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/OptimismPortal.sol#L160-L344
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
State in line with your docs.