cmichel

low

# Spec: Wrong description of the Withdrawal Verification and Finalization steps

## Summary
Wrong description of the Withdrawal Verification and Finalization steps.

## Vulnerability Detail

The [`withdrawals.md`](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/3f4b3c328153a8aa03611158b6984d624b17c1d9/specs/withdrawals.md?plain=1#L179) describes the second step of the withdrawal process as:

> 2.  `L2OutputOracle.getL2OutputAfter(l2BlockNumber)` returns a non-zero `OutputProposal`.

The `getL2OutputAfter` call is never performed. This function does not even exist, most likely, it was referring to `getL2OutputIndexAfter`. However, even this function is not called. What happens in the finalization process is that `getL2Output(l2OutputIndex)` is called to retrieve the output root for the given block number (index). 
Then, **this output root is compared to the stored output root** (`provenWithdrawals[withdrawalHash].outputRoot`), not checked to simply be non-zero. This step is missing from the spec but it's important to protect against block deletions/reorgs by the challenger.

## Impact

The withdrawal finalization process should be clearly documented in the spec. Currently, it's referring to a step that isn't performed and misses another crucial step.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/3f4b3c328153a8aa03611158b6984d624b17c1d9/specs/withdrawals.md?plain=1#L179

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Fix the spec by removing the second point and adding a new point about retrieving the latest output root for the block index and checking it against the stored withdrawal output root to prevent withdrawals that were removed due to challenger block reorgs.