0x1337

low

# Minor: Incorrect and inconsistent storage gap

## Summary

The `ERC721Bridge` base contract is used by both the `L1ERC721Bridge` contract and the `L2ERC721Bridge` contract, and contains storage gap, including the spec of total storage slot of 50 in code comments. However, the actual storage gap in the contract is not 50. 

The `CrossDomainMessenger` base contract is used by both the `L1CrossDomainMessenger` and `L2CrossDomainMessenger` contracts. The contract has comment saying gap size of 41 and the intended total storage slot of 50. The actual total storage gap in this contract is 42 + 6 = 48. 

It appears that the developer has failed to recognize that `immutable` and `constant` variables do not take any storage slot, in arriving at the incorrect storage slot. 

## Vulnerability Detail

In the contract `ERC721Bridge`, line 25 reserves 49 slots when the comment above says total of 50. Both `MESSENGER` and `OTHER_BRIDGE` are `immutable` and do not take any storage slot. 

In the contract `CrossDomainMessenger`, line 137 includes gap of 42, and the number of non constant and non immutable variables declared in this contract is 6, bringing total storage gap to 48. 

## Impact

49 storage slots are reserved instead of the intended spec of 50 slots in `ERC721Bridge`, and 48 storage slots are reserved instead of the intended spec of 50 slots in `CrossDomainMessenger`. 

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/universal/ERC721Bridge.sol#L25

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/universal/CrossDomainMessenger.sol#L94-L137

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Modify the length of the `__gap` array to bring total storage gap to 50 in these contracts. 
