tnch

low

# Permissions for deletion of L2 outputs does not follow specification

## Summary

While the specification states that the proposer must be entitled to delete output roots, the implementation grants this permission to the challenger role instead.

## Vulnerability Detail

According to [the specification for L2 output root proposals](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/specs/proposals.md#proposing-l2-output-commitments), the proposer should be granted powers to delete outputs roots using the [`deleteL2Outputs` function](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/L2OutputOracle.sol#L128) of the `L2OutputOracle` contract.

However, the implementation does not allow the `PROPOSER` role to call this function. Instead, it [only allows the `CHALLENGER` role](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/L2OutputOracle.sol#L129-L132) to do it.

## Impact

I'm reporting under the assumption that the spec is outdated, and the code follows the intended behavior. Particularly because the [docstrings of the `deleteL2Outputs` function](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/L2OutputOracle.sol#L122) state that its to be called by the challenger. If so, then there's no outstanding impact.

Otherwise, if the specification is correct, and the code is not, then this issue would turn into a more severe access control problem, where the proposer would be expected to carry out a task that the code would not allow. And the challenger may be granted incorrect powers.

## Code Snippet

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Depending on the actual intention, either update the spec to match the code, or update the code of the `deleteL2Outputs` function to match the spec.
