
- [276.md](processed/medium/go/276.md): #medium
  - **Description:** Panic in transaction unmarshalling code
  - **Reason:** This is a legit bug in our transaction unmarshalling code.
  - **Action:** Check for nil gas before unmarshalling

---

shw

medium

# Panic when decoding a malformed deposit transaction JSON string

## Summary

When decoding a deposit transaction JSON string without the `"gas"` field, a panic/runtime error is triggered due to a nil pointer dereference.

## Vulnerability Detail

The `op-geth/core/types/transaction_marshalling.go` file defines how transactions are encoded and decoded from JSON format. In the `UnmarshalJSON()` function, from L283 to L315, a new logic is added for the deposit transaction type, `DepositTxType`. The bug happens at L293, where the `dec.Gas` field is dereferenced without checking it against `nil` first. As a result, if the provided deposit transaction JSON string does not have the `"gas"` field, the nil pointer dereference will trigger a runtime error and crash the program.

For a PoC: Add the following test case to `op-geth/core/types/transaction_test.go` and run `cd op-geth && go test -run TestDecodeJSON -v ./core/types`

```go
func TestDecodeJSON(t *testing.T) {
    // the "gas" field does not exist
    var data = []byte("{\"type\":\"0x7e\",\"nonce\":null,\"gasPrice\":null,\"maxPriorityFeePerGas\":null,\"maxFeePerGas\":null,\"value\":\"0x1\",\"input\":\"0x616263646566\",\"v\":null,\"r\":null,\"s\":null,\"to\":null,\"sourceHash\":\"0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000\",\"from\":\"0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000001\",\"isSystemTx\":false,\"hash\":\"0xa4341f3db4363b7ca269a8538bd027b2f8784f84454ca917668642d5f6dffdf9\"}")
    var parsedTx = &Transaction{}
    _ = json.Unmarshal(data, &parsedTx) // will panic here
}
```

## Impact

A possible exploit scenario is targeting an `ethclient` compiled based on `op-geth`. For example, according to `op-geth/ethclient/ethclient.go`, the `BlockByHash()` API makes a RPC `eth_getBlockByHash` request to an RPC endpoint and expect to receive a `json.RawMessage` data that represents the queried block. In the `getBlock()` function, the JSON raw message is then decoded into a `rpcBlock`, containing a list of `rpcTransaction`s with type of `Transaction`. Therefore, a malicious RPC endpoint can construct a deposit transaction without the `"gas"` field in a block and return the block to the `ethclient`. The `ethclient` will fail to decode the received block and crash due to this bug.

Marking this issue as medium severity according to previous similar audit findings from Sigma Prime.

## Code Snippet

Please refer to `op-geth/core/types/transaction_marshalling.go#L293`, `op-geth/ethclient/ethclient.go#L77-L79` and `op-geth/ethclient/ethclient.go#L118-L126`.
https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/op-geth/blob/985086bf2a5c61e76a8ce7c74ac029660751e260/core/types/transaction_marshalling.go#L293

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Check whether `dec.Gas` is `nil` before dereferencing it:

```go
if dec.Gas == nil {
    return errors.New("missing required field 'gas' in transaction")
}
```