0xdeadbeef

high

# Migration will not succeed because of a mismatch between witness data and expected data

## Summary

Witness data is gathered in order to perform the migration from pre-bedrock to bedrock.
Currently, the witness data is generated through iteration of messages that get written to a file on every call to the the `OVM_L2ToL1MessagePasser` contract.

The migration scripts assumes all calls to the `OVM_L2ToL1MessagePasser` are from the `L2CrossDomainMessenger` and are to the `relayMessage` selector.

Until a few days ago, the assumption held until someone called the `OVM_L2ToL1MessagePasser` directly on mainnet:
https://optimistic.etherscan.io/tx/0xa07e49d05fab5c69613c272ca13d62d7888959460f28fb0749bddf3fb62ccf7f

The new witness data that will be generated will cause the migration script to fail.

An attacker can do the same to intentionally cause the migration to fail.

## Vulnerability Detail

Pre-bedrock l2geth records every message sent to `OVM_L2ToL1MessagePasser` in the evm implementation of `call`:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/l2geth/core/vm/evm.go#L206-L209

The witness data is created based on the messages recorded by `statedumper`. The messages are later parsed into a json file.
An example of the parsing can be seen in the following utility:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/migration-data/bin/cli.ts

The parsed message end up in a format that extracts the message sender and the message itself. 
The migration script attempts to create a `SentMessage` for every message recorded and then convert the message to `LegacyWithdrawal`.
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/op-chain-ops/genesis/migration/types.go#L23-L53

The issue rises when attempting to call `LegacyWithdrawal.Decode()` on the message data to convert it to a withdrawal.
There are checks that:
1. The message selector is `relayMessage(address,address,bytes,uint256)` 
2. Validate that `who` (caller to OVM_L2ToL1MessagePasser) is `L2CrossDomainMessenger`
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/op-chain-ops/crossdomain/legacy_withdrawal.go#L58-L66

The above checks are valid if `OVM_L2ToL1MessagePasser` was called through `L2CrossDomainMessenger` but are invalid if the `OVM_L2ToL1MessagePasser` was called directly.

The code will return an error and the error will bubble up to stop the migration and cause it to fail.

## Impact

Migration will be halted. Will not be able to continue without clearing the witness data or upgrading the migration code.
As the chain is paused during migration, any delay will cause business disruption to protocols/users using optimism.

## Code Snippet

Added in the description

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Either:
1. Instead of bubbling up the error, skip invalid messages and create only valid withdrawals
2. Filter our messages that are not to `relayMessage` and are not from `L2CrossDomainMessenger` during the creation of the witness data. If this is chosen, the noCheck flag will be forced to be enabled to not cause errors in `PreCheckWithdrawals` which check that all the withdrawals are matching the storage slots of `OVM_L2ToL1MessagePasser`
