0xdeadbeef

high

# ETH/tokens are permanently frozen if they are sent from L1->L2 using the L1StandardBridge while the L2CrossDomainMessenger is "paused"

## Summary

Sending ETH/ERC20 tokens into L2 from L1 can be done by the `L1StandardBridge` and received in the `L2StandardBridge`.
The funds are being relayed by `CrossDomainMessenger`s. If the `L2CrossDomainMessenger` on L2 is paused funds will be permanently locked.

## Vulnerability Detail

The flow of the funds will be as follows:
L1StandardBridge -> L1CrossDomainMessenger -> OptimismPortal -> L2 ->  Aliased(L1CrossDomainMessenger) -> L2CrossDomainMessenger -> L2StandardBridge

`L2CrossDomainMessenger` has a `pause` mechanism that prevents it from receiving messages.
If that mechanism is enabled:
1. ETH funds would reach L2 but be stuck in the aliased `L1CrossDomainMessenger` account.
2. ERC20 will never reach `L2StandardBridge` and therefore never be minted.

This is because `relayMessage` used by `CrossDomainMessenger`s can only be called when the contract is not paused.

In an active network the impact would be almost certain and near immediate. The amount of time for this to take effect is the amount of frequency deposits are translated from L1 to L2 (~2-4 seconds).


## Impact

Loss of funds

## Code Snippet

`relayMessage` in `CrossDomainMessenger` has a `whenNotPaused` modifier:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/universal/CrossDomainMessenger.sol#L263

`pause` method:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/universal/CrossDomainMessenger.sol#L191-L193

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

When the contract is pause consider instead of directly reverting `relayMessage` , save the messages that they can be replayed later on (for example after issuing a security fix).