Severity: Low
#Action: consider validating L2 configuration variables from "n.l2Source" and "cfg.Rollup" sources on node

---

yongkiws

low

# L1 and L2 cannot validate correctly

## Summary
In the op-node initialization process, validation for the configuration variables L1 and L2 is minimal.

## Vulnerability Detail
The op-node for L1 and L2 configuration variables, ensuring that L1 and L2 clients match the op-node configuration. For example, if an L2 client is incorrectly deployed as an L1 client, this PR will cause the op-node initialization process to fail as quickly as possible, thus avoiding a harmless error.

## Impact
1.Call the "Setup" function from object "cfg.L1" to create L1, trustRPC, rpcProvKind nodes and ensure no errors occur.
2.L1 datasource creation using "sources.NewL1Client". This data source is built using an instrumented RPC client (l1Node, n.metrics), logs, and cache.
3.Set up a subscription (subscription) for L1 heads via "eth.WatchHeadChanges". This function will call "n.OnNewL1Head" when there is a change in head.
4.Poll for safe block and finalized block L1 through "eth.PollBlockChanges". This function will call "n.OnNewL1Safe" and "n.OnNewL1Finalized" when there is a change in the block.
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/op-node/node/node.go#L114-L149
No ValidateL1Config verifies the L1 configuration variable for errors.
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/op-node/rollup/types.go#L58
Must have ChainID retrieve chain id from internal RPC.
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/op-node/sources/eth_client.go#L3-L347
## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/op-node/node/node.go#L114-L149
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/op-node/rollup/types.go#L1-L115
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/op-node/sources/eth_client.go#L3-L347

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
- consider validating L2 configuration variables from "n.l2Source" and "cfg.Rollup" sources on node
``` go
if err := cfg.Rollup.<<configruasi rollup>>(ctx, n.l2Source); err != nil {
		return err
	}
```
- consider create validating configuration variables for two types (L1Client or L2Client) on types rollup
- consider retrieve the chain id from the internal RPC eth client