Reason: The specs and implementation are correct. The current L1 time is used to allow enough time for a challenge to pass.

obront

low

# L2OutputOracle blocks will have incorrect timestamps

## Summary

When new block hashes are added to L2OutputOracle, the time of the block will not line up with the correct block time accepted by nodes and defined in the spec.

## Vulnerability Detail

It is made clear in the spec that L2 blocks are created every 2 seconds. This is properly enforced in the node.

However, when these blocks are submitted to the L2OutputOracle, the timestamps will not be correct. This is because the contract first calculates the "correct" timestamp for the block and compares it to the current timestamp:
```solidity
require(
    computeL2Timestamp(_l2BlockNumber) < block.timestamp,
    "L2OutputOracle: cannot propose L2 output in the future"
);
```

It then saves the current timestamp, rather than the correct one:
```solidity
l2Outputs.push(
    Types.OutputProposal({
        outputRoot: _outputRoot,
        timestamp: uint128(block.timestamp),
        l2BlockNumber: uint128(_l2BlockNumber)
    })
);
```
While this does not cause any problems, since this value is only used for proving withdrawals, it does violate the spec, which says:

> It then submits this output, and the appropriate timestamp, to the L2 Output Root contract's proposeL2Output() function. The timestamp block number must correspond to the startingBlockNumber plus the next multiple of the SUBMISSION_INTERVAL value.

(I believe there are some typos in here, but it seems to be expressing that the saved timestamp should be the calculated one, based on the block number.)

This problem is made worse in the case of a successful challenge. Because of the above code, when new block hashes are saved, they will be saved with the current timestamp rather than the correct timestamp for the block, which could be up to 7 days off.

## Impact

L2OutputOracle blocks will have their timestamp set to the time they are pushed on chain, rather than the correct timestamp associated with the block number.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/L2OutputOracle.sol#L176-L179

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/L2OutputOracle.sol#L203-L209

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

When pushing the new block to the `l2Outputs` array in L2OutputOracle, use the computed block timestamp rather than the current one:
```diff
l2Outputs.push(
    Types.OutputProposal({
        outputRoot: _outputRoot,
-       timestamp: uint128(block.timestamp),
+       timestamp: uint128(computeL2Timestamp(_l2BlockNumber)),
        l2BlockNumber: uint128(_l2BlockNumber)
    })
);
```