
- [177.md](processed/medium/go/177.md): #medium
  - **Description:** P2P buffer is too small
  - **Reason:** This is a valid attack, wherein the attacker replays blocks and eclipses a node from the P2P network.
  - **Action:** Increase buffer size

---

usmannk

medium

# Crafted p2p spam can render nodes permanently unable to process L2 blocks

## Summary

The constraints in `BuildBlocksValidator` are meant to prevent p2p spam from bogging down the network. However they are not sufficient for stopping spam, but are strong enough to render nodes unable to catch up.

## Vulnerability Detail

The `p2p.BuildBlocksValidator` function has several constraints that must be met before a gossiped block is considered valid. If a block is considered valid then it is gossiped to peers and ingested into the current node.

The constraints on a gossiped block `block` are, in order:
- `block` must be <10MB
- `block` must be compressed as valid snappy data
- `block` must be signed by the sequencer
- `block` must be a valid SSZ encoded block
- `block`.timestamp must within 60 seconds in the past and 5 seconds in the future
- `block.BlockHash` must be correctly calculated
- `block.BlockNumber` must not be in the set of the previous 100 unique block numbers that reached this step

These constraints are applied here:

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/op-node/p2p/gossip.go#L208

However, it is often the case that there are over 100 valid L2 blocks emitted per minute. For example, the 253 blocks between block 71404110 and 71404363 were emitted within 60 seconds. 

In this example, an attacker would take the 200 blocks from 71404110-71404310 and replay them in order to a node for 60 seconds. Every block would be valid because they each pass all constraints and the 100 block LRU cache for marking `seen` blocks would be evicted twice over during the process. 

After 60 seconds, block `71404310 + 1` would be invalid to this node because its timestamp would be too old. At this point, for any new L2 block the node would either:
- mark it as invalid because it is too old
- or ingest it and throw it away because it is waiting for block `71404311`

As a result, the node will no longer be able to successfully process any L2 blocks from the p2p network.

Furthermore, because all 200 blocks are marked as valid several times, the node would gossip all of these blocks (potentially several times) to its peers who would suffer the same effect and impact their peers.

## Impact

Attackers may halt targeted nodes.

Further knock-on potential halting of the node's peers, peers of peers, and so on.

## Code Snippet

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Increase the size of the `blockHeightLRU` cache to more effectively catch and reject previously seen nodes. It would be reasonable to set it to 1000 instead of 100. Even at 1000 the cache should occupy less than 500kb in memory.