0xdeadbeef

high

# finalizeWithdrawalTransaction in OptimismPortal marks the withdrawal as finalized even if the transaction fails

## Summary

Transactions from L2 to L1 are executed in `OptimismPortal` `finalizeWithdrawalTransaction` function after a 7 day validation period.

The withdrawal sent from L2 to L1 is marked as finalized even if the transaction fails. It cannot be replayed later.

Consider the following scenario:
Alice has funds some excessive on L2 and wants to deposit ETH to protocol X on L1 to gain yield.
Alice uses the more direct and gas efficient (no waste gas on relayer) `L2ToL1MessagePasser` to pass a message to L1 in order to deposit her funds to X protocol "depositFor" function.
After the 7 day validation period Alice (or anyone else) calls `finalizeWithdrawalTransaction` to finalize Alice's withdrawal and deposit into X protocol. 
Unfortunately, X protocol had to do maintenance and paused deposits for a few blocks.
Because the deposit to protocol X reverted, Alice lost her funds (permanently locked in OptimisimPortal).

Alice does not have a way to replay the transaction (which will work in a few blocks)

## Vulnerability Detail

`finalizeWithdrawalTransaction` sets `finalizedWithdrawals ` to true if even if the call to `_tx.target` fails, therefore it cannot be called again with the same `withdrawHash`. 

Replaying the transaction could be possible if the function would revert on failure or set `finalizedWithdrawals[withdrawalHash] = true` only if the transaction succeeded.

## Impact

Loss of funds

## Code Snippet

The following code snippet of `finalizeWithdrawalTransaction` shows:
1. The check if finalizedWithdrawals[withdrawalHash] == false` 
2. The function does not revert on fail
3. marks the withdrawal as finalized before testing if it fails

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/OptimismPortal.sol#L301-L343

Foundry POC:

There is already an implemented POC that demonstrates that an event is created on fail. As can be seen when executing the test, the transaction does not revert and event is created with `success=false`:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/test/OptimismPortal.t.sol#L631-L650
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Consider reverting if the transaction failed or setting the `finalizedWithdrawals[withdrawalHash] = true` only if `success==true`
