Reason: Seems like a reasonable point and is maybe worth fixing, but not going to lead to vuln

---

rvierdiiev

medium

# SystemDictator.finalize can be called before step5, which will make step5 not possible to call

## Summary
SystemDictator.finalize can be called before step5, which will make step5 not possible to call
## Vulnerability Detail
SystemDictator contract if important for upgrading to bedrock version.
This contract is initialized with some configs and then do step by step upgrade of system.

[`currentStep` variable](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/deployment/SystemDictator.sol#L150) is responsible for storing current step of upgrade. Using [`step` modifier](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/deployment/SystemDictator.sol#L139-L143) SystemDictator restricts calls to further steps. Everything should be called step by step.

Also SystemDictator has `finalize` function which will [transfer ownership](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/deployment/SystemDictator.sol#L380-L384) of some contracts, such as proxyAdmin, `l1CrossDomainMessengerProxy` to `finalOwner`. Once it's done, that means that SystemDictator is not owner of that contracts anymore.

`finalize` doesn't have any step protection, which means that it can be called any time.
In case if it will be called before `step5` function, which main task is to upgrade `proxyAdmin` with new implementations, that mean that it will be not possible to execute `step5` anymore because of transferred ownership, so function will always revert.

As result, deployment will not be finished and protocol will need to transfer ownership back to dictator in order to proceed next.
## Impact
Upgrading to bedrock can be blocked.
## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/deployment/SystemDictator.sol#L380-L384
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/deployment/SystemDictator.sol#L277-L319
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Restrict call to `finalize` function to be possible only after agreed steps.