
- [069.md](/Users/maurelian/Judging/2023-01-optimism-judging/x/false/069.md): #false
  - **Description:** Cross Domain Ownable does not respect EOAs
  - **Reason:** It's a good point, but not an issue in this system. If an EOA is meant to be the owner, it can use regular ownable. Still, it looks like the test needs fixing.

---

tnch

medium

# Incorrect de-aliasing of EOAs in `CrossDomainOwnable` can lead to contract lockup

## Summary

## Vulnerability Detail

The `CrossDomainOwnable` contract intends to provide a building block for cross-domain ownership of contracts. That means that contracts on L2 can be owned by accounts on L1. An owner account on L1 can make permissioned calls to their L2 contracts by calling the `depositTransaction` function of the `OptimismPortal` contract on L1. When the owner account on L1 is an EOA, the `from` address for the call [is not aliased](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/OptimismPortal.sol#L374-L378) to an L2 address.

However, the L2 code in the `CrossDomainOwnable` always [de-aliases the `msg.sender` account](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L2/CrossDomainOwnable.sol#L21), to then check whether it matches the configured owner account. Even when the caller account on L1 is an EOA that hasn't been aliased by the portal. Therefore, EOAs expected to own L2 contracts that use the `CrossDomainOwnable` contract will not be able to use them, effectively locking up any permissioned functionality on the owned L2 contract.

Note that while there are [tests](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/test/CrossDomainOwnable.t.sol) for the `CrossDomainOwnable` contract, the issue is missed by an oversight there. In the test, [when the L1 EOA ("alice") is pranked](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/test/CrossDomainOwnable.t.sol#L54) with `vm.prank(alice)`, the test is only changing the `msg.sender` to the `alice` account for [the next call to `depositTransaction`](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/test/CrossDomainOwnable.t.sol#L55). But it's not changing the `tx.origin` to the `alice` account. To do that, it would need to use `vm.prank(alice, alice)` (see [Forge's docs](https://book.getfoundry.sh/cheatcodes/prank)). Therefore, the portal contract sees that `msg.sender` does not match `tx.origin`, aliases the sender, and when the `alice` account calls the L2 contract, the de-alias makes the test pass.

Here's the fixed version of the test that surfaces the actual bug in the `CrossDomainOwnable` contract. You can add the function below in the `CrossDomainOwnable.t.sol` file, under the existing `CrossDomainOwnableThroughPortal_Test` contract:

```solidity
contract CrossDomainOwnableThroughPortal_Test is Portal_Initializer {

   // [...]
   
   function test_depositTransaction_crossDomainOwner_origin_fails() external {
        vm.recordLogs();

        vm.prank(alice, alice); // --> Correctly setting the `tx.origin` to the `alice` account
        op.depositTransaction(
            address(setter),
            0,
            10000,
            false,
            abi.encodeWithSelector(XDomainSetter.set.selector, 1)
        );

        VmSafe.Log[] memory logs = vm.getRecordedLogs();
        VmSafe.Log memory log = logs[0];
        address from = Bytes32AddressLib.fromLast20Bytes(log.topics[1]);

        vm.prank(from);
        setter.set(1); // --> Fails with "caller is not the owner"
        assertEq(setter.value(), 1);
    }
}
```

## Impact

EOAs on L1 that own L2 contracts inheriting `CrossDomainOwnable` will not be able to interact with permissioned functions. There are no contracts in the code base using it at the moment. The contract seems to just be provided as a building block for other devs building on Optimism. So for now the impact is limited to a hypothetical scenario.

## Code Snippet

## Tool used

Manual review and Foundry for testing.

## Recommendation

The `CrossDomainOwnable` contract doesn't use the `L2CrossDomainMessenger` contract. So there doesn't seem to be a straightforward way for the `CrossDomainOwnable` to determine whether the `msg.sender` must be de-aliased or not before checking permissions.

It seems the most straightforward solution is to warn EOAs to avoid using the `CrossDomainOwnable`, and instead use the `CrossDomainOwnable2` contract. I'd also suggest adding more comprehensive tests to these contracts, explicitly checking for different scenarios where L1 accounts are EOAs or smart contracts.
