- [070.md](processed/false/070.md): #false
  - **Description:** Bridge volume spoofing
  - **Reason:** Not a vuln. Not false specs.
  - **Action:** Add comment with guidance for interpreting bridge events.

---

Wow, this is crazy. ~~I'm not certain it works, and I'm not certain it's all that bad.~~
OK, it most likely does work, still not a big deal, but points for creativity.

The report is a bit hard to follow because its so detailed, but here's my summary of how it works:
1. A withdrawal of 1MM FakeUSDC on L2 is initiated for 1MM USDC on L1
2. When the transaction is finalized on L1, the call from the messenger to L1Bridge.finalizeBridgeERC20()
    will fail, because there is no USDC deposited for FakeUSDC. (Of course this call can still be replayed)
3. The rest of the action happens in a single large transaction, where a 'Spammer' contract:
   1. Takes a 1MM USDC flashloan
   2. Deposits that 1MM USDC to the L1Bridge for FakeUSDC on L2.
   3. Replays the call from the messenger to L1Bridge.finalizeBridgeERC20(), which this time succeeds
   4. So the 1MM USDC is returned to the Spammer contract and the flashloan is paid off

The result is basically that the FakeToken makes a roundtrip from L2 to L1 and back. Events will be
emitted on both sides indicating that USDC is being bridged, but watchers should be smart enough to
differentiate between the real USDC and FakeUSDC on L2.

No that I have properly parsed this report, I can see that this is very similar to an issue that Zeppelin brought up,
Whereby bridge volume could be spoofed by depositing to an invalid token pair, which would result in a round trip of
any token (and associated events).

---

HE1M

medium

# Increasing the volume of bridging fraudulently

## Summary

It is possible to increase the volume of bridging transaction significantly. It can be done by getting a flash loan of USDC (for example) and transfers this large amount between L1/L2 but in reality this large amount only is deposited in bridge contract on L1 and in the same transaction it is withdrawn to repay the flash loan. But, it seems that the user is bridging large amount between L1 and L2.

## Vulnerability Detail

 - Bob (a malicious user) creates a fake ERC20 token contract (called `FakeL2Token`) on L2, and mints `1_000_000 * 10 ** 6` to himself.
 - Bob creates a contract (called `BobL1Contract`) on L1.
 - Bob calls the function `bridgeERC20To` on L2 to bridge `1_000_000 * 10 ** 6` of `FakeL2Token` to L1, with following parameters:
   - `_localToken` = address of `FakeL2Token` on L2
   - `_remoteToken` = address of USDC on L1
   - `_to` = address of `BobL1Contract` on L1
   - `_amount` = 1_000_000 * 10 ** 6
   - `_minGasLimit` = just enough to have a successful transaction
   - `_extraData` = bytes("")
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/universal/StandardBridge.sol#L265-L272
 - Then the internal function `_initiateBridgeERC20` will be called.
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/universal/StandardBridge.sol#L397
 - Since `FakeL2Token` is not Optimism Mintable ERC20, the `else block` will be executed, in which we will have:
 ```solidity
deposits[FakeL2Token][USDC] = 1_000_000 * 10 ** 6;
```
 https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/universal/StandardBridge.sol#L413
 - After validation, and challenge period elapsed, on the L1 side, the function `finalizeBridgeERC20` will be called.
 https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/universal/StandardBridge.sol#L324
 - Since USDC is not Optimism Mintable ERC20, the `else block` will be executed. But, it will be reverted, because the mapping `deposits[USDC][FakeL2Token] = 0`, so it can not unlock 1_000_000 * 10 ** 6 USDC.
 https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/universal/StandardBridge.sol#L339
 - Since, the finalization was not successful, it is possible to retry finalization again later.
 https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/universal/CrossDomainMessenger.sol#L331
 - `BobL1Contract` takes a flash loan of 1_000_000 * 10 ** 6 USDC from AAVE.
 - In the same transaction, `BobL1Contract` calls the function `bridgeERC20To` on L1 with the following parameters:
    - `_localToken` = address of USDC on L1
   - `_remoteToken` = address of `FakeL2Token` on L2
   - `_to` = address of Bob
   - `_amount` = 1_000_000 * 10 ** 6
   - `_minGasLimit` = just enough to have a successful transaction
   - `_extraData` = bytes("")
 - Since USDC is not Optimism Mintable ERC20, 1_000_000 * 10 ** 6 USDC will be transferred from `BobL1Contract` to the `L1StandardBridge`, and we will have:
```solidity
deposits[USDC][FakeL2Token] = 1_000_000 * 10 ** 6;
```
 https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/universal/StandardBridge.sol#L415
 - In the same transaction, `BobL1Contract` retries the finalization of the previous failed transaction by calling the function `relayMessage`.
 https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/universal/CrossDomainMessenger.sol#L256
 - Since the mapping `deposits[USDC][FakeL2Token]` has the value of 1_000_000 * 10 ** 6 (because of the previous bridge initiation), this time the ERC20 bridging will be finalized properly, and this amount will be transferred to `BobL1Contract`, and we will have `deposits[USDC][FakeL2Token] = 0`.
 https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/universal/StandardBridge.sol#L341
 - In the same transaction, `BobL1Contract` repays the flash loan to AAVE.
 - On the L2 side, the same amount 1_000_000 * 10 ** 6 `FakeL2Token` will be transferred to Bob.

Please note that the same scenario can also happen for ERC721 bridging.

## Impact
 - It may have some impact on the Bots (defenders, like what implemented by OpenZeppelin) who monitors the deposit and withdrawal amount continuously. For example, if a Bot is monitoring the Optimism bridges to see if some suspicious large amount of funds are being transferred between L1/L2 to do some action (like setting off an alarm or pausing some critical functions), it will lead to a false alarm.
 - Moreover, Bob can increase his volume of transaction with optimism fraudulently, and can increase his chance of getting airdrop (if any) significantly.
## Code Snippet

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Maybe one solution is to check that at least one of the tokens (remote or local) be Optimism Mintable ERC20 on one of the chains. For example, Since USDC is not Optimism Mintable ERC20, then `FakeL2Token` must be Optimism Mintable ERC20 on L2.
```solidity
function finalizeBridgeERC20(
        address _localToken,
        address _remoteToken,
        address _from,
        address _to,
        uint256 _amount,
        bytes calldata _extraData
    ) public onlyOtherBridge {
        if (_isOptimismMintableERC20(_localToken)) {
            require(
                _isCorrectTokenPair(_localToken, _remoteToken),
                "StandardBridge: wrong remote token for Optimism Mintable ERC20 local token"
            );

            OptimismMintableERC20(_localToken).mint(_to, _amount);
        } else {
            require(_isOptimismMintableERC20OnRemoteChain(_remoteToken), "at least one token must be Optimism Mintable ERC20");
            deposits[_localToken][_remoteToken] = deposits[_localToken][_remoteToken] - _amount;
            IERC20(_localToken).safeTransfer(_to, _amount);
        }

        emit ERC20BridgeFinalized(_localToken, _remoteToken, _from, _to, _amount, _extraData);
    }
```