
- [101.md](0-system-findings/1-processed/101.md): #false
  - **Description:** Weird tokens
  - **Reason:** Deflationary and weird tokens are explicitly not supported by the Standard Bridge per a comment in the code.

---

obront

medium

# Deflationary or fee on transfer tokens will make the bridge insolvent

## Summary

The Optimism Bridge is intended to work with standard ERC20s. However, the bridge logic does not account for deflationary or fee on transfer tokens, which would lead to the bridge becoming insolvent. 

## Vulnerability Detail

When ERC20s are bridged from L1 to L2, they are sent into the bridge with the following logic:
```solidity
IERC20(_localToken).safeTransferFrom(_from, address(this), _amount);
deposits[_localToken][_remoteToken] = deposits[_localToken][_remoteToken] + _amount;
```
They are then minted on the other side with the following logic:
```solidity
OptimismMintableERC20(_localToken).mint(_to, _amount);
```
The `_amount` variable is set based on the amount sent to the bridge, not the amount received. The result in the case of both types of tokens is that the bridge will end up with fewer tokens than exist on L2.

As with any insolvent bridge, the result is that, when another user transfers into the bridge, the original user will be able to withdraw their full deposit, leaving the new depositor with even fewer tokens backing their L2 assets.

## Impact

Certain tokens will create bad situations when used on the Optimism Bridge, and these situations have not been well documented for users. Users are likely to engage in "normal" behavior through trusted contracts, and end up losing their tokens.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/universal/StandardBridge.sol#L397-L416

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/universal/StandardBridge.sol#L324-L345

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation 

The standard practice when it comes to transferring fee-on-transfer tokens is to perform an ERC20 `balanceOf()` check before and after transfering the tokens. This would guarantee solvency for the bridge.
