Severity: False
Reason: This is not a valid concern. The issue is suggesting that we assert that passed in addresses have code. There are some places in the codebase where we do similar types of validation on constructor args, but they usually only check for `address(0)` not being passed in. It also suggests that we only allow trusted accounts but it is unclear how trusted accounts would be managed?
  There are no reentrency issues as no untrusted code is called during the call to `initialize` or the constructor’s execution.


---

OCC

high

# Ownership Transfer Vulnerability and `CrossDomainMessenger` initialization Risk in `L1CrossDomainMessenger.sol`


## Summary

```solidity
         function initialize(address _owner) public initializer {
             __CrossDomainMessenger_init();
             _transferOwnership(_owner);
            }
```
https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/3f4b3c328153a8aa03611158b6984d624b17c1d9/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/L1CrossDomainMessenger.sol#L40


   It seems to me that there are some frequent vulnerabilities that may exist in the code:
Reentrancy, control of contract , unexpected behavior.


## Vulnerability Detail

  *Reentrancy:*  An attacker could call the function repeatedly and change its internal state if  `__CrossDomainMessenger_init()` is susceptible to reentrancy attacks.

*Ownership Transfer:* If   `__transferOwnership(__owner)`  does not properly validate `_owner`, it may let an attacker to seize control of the contract by giving in a malicious address.

*Initialization:* If the contract is not correctly initialized before usage, it may result in unexpected behavior or security risks.

## Impact
  Fatal

## Code Snippet
 Manually

## Tool used
   Manually review

Manual Review
 Yes

## Recommendation

  Some basic suggestions for mitigating potential coding vulnerabilities:

*Ownership Transfer:* To confirm that the provided address is valid and trustworthy before transferring ownership to it.

```solidity
function initialize(address _owner) public initializer {
    require(isAddress(_owner), "Invalid address");
    require(_owner == trustedAddress, "Untrusted address");
    __CrossDomainMessenger_init();
    _transferOwnership(_owner);
}
```



*Initialization Function:*  The `__CrossDomainMessenger__init()` function should be properly evaluated and tested to verify.

```solidity
function __CrossDomainMessenger_init() internal {
    // properly testing
    // checks to prevent vulnerabilities.
}
```