
- [145.md](processed/false/145.md): #false
  - **Description:** 721 Bridge can't accept token airdrops
  - **Reason:** Up to Airdroppers to design an effective airdrop. They can bridge the NFTs to L2 then airdrop them if they wish.

---

unforgiven

medium

# [Meduim] Airdropped NFTs for bridged NFTs, would be locked on L1ERC721Bridge forever

## Summary
Contract L1ERC721Bridge is for bridging  NFTs from L1 to L2 and it holds all the bridged NFTs. Most of the NFT projects would airdrop new NFTs for previous owners based either by sending the new NFTs to holders address or by allowing the holder to call a function and receive the airdrop. There is no functionality to handle airdropped NFTs in the NFT bridge. users would lose pushed airdrops and they would be locked in the bridge. and for pull airdrops users need to bridge NFT from L2 and then call airdrop function.

## Vulnerability Detail
Contract L1ERC721Bridge is going to be a standard bridge between Ethereum and Optimism networks and it would be used to bridge a lot of NFTs from different collections from L1 to L2 as Optimism is one of the Ethereum's biggest L2. when users bridge the NFT from L1 to L2 the NFT would be hold on the L1ERC721Bridge contract. so the contract is going to have a lot of NFTs from a lot of collections.
The NFT projects airdrops the new NFTs to old NFT holders when they want to release new collections. they would perform airdrop either by sending them directly to old NFT holders address or by allowing NFT holders to call a function like `getAirdrop()` and receive the NFTs.
Contract L1ERC721Bridge doesn't support those airdrops and users would lose their airdrops or need to pay extra gas to receive them.

## Impact
1. if a project send NFTs directly to token holders then contract L1ERC721Bridge  would receive those NFTs and because there is no functionality in the code to withdraw them (by owner of the old NFT or by admin) so those NFTs would be locked in contract forever. as L1ERC721Bridge is going the be standard NFT bridge between two network so it's going to have a lot of NFT and a lot of airdrops would be locked in it and a lot of users would lose their airdropped NFT.
2. if a project airdrop new NFTs by allowing holders to call `getAirdrop()` then users would need to bridge back NFTs from L2 to L1 to receive their airdrops and then bridge NFT back to the L2 and users would need to pay extra gas for multiple transactions.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/3f4b3c328153a8aa03611158b6984d624b17c1d9/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/L1ERC721Bridge.sol#L77-L106

## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
There isn't a standard way to handle this, some things that can be done is:
1. add a method for admin to withdraw not-bridged NFTs (set `bridged[NFT][id]` to true when token is bridged and set it to false when token is bridged back) that are in L1ERC721Bridge contract balance.
2. give users functionality to call `getAirdrop()` in L1, when they hold NFT in the L2.
3. inform users and project about this so they could handle their NFTs during airdrops.