
- [151.md](0-system-findings/1-processed/0-false/151.md): #false
  - **Description:** Should have a storage gap for upgradeable contracts.
  - **Reason:** The contracts referenced, which do not have a gap, are fully derived contracts and are not intended to be inherited.

---

tsvetanovv

medium

# No storage gap for upgradable contracts might lead to storage slot collision

## Summary
For upgradeable contracts, there must be storage gap to “allow developers to freely add new state variables in the future without compromising the storage compatibility with existing deployments”. 
Otherwise, it may be very difficult to write new implementation code. 

## Vulnerability Detail
Without storage gap, the variable in the contract contract might be overwritten by the upgraded contract if new variables are added. 
This could have unintended and very serious consequences to the child contracts.

## Impact
Without storage gap, the variable in the contract contract might be overwritten by the upgraded contract if new variables are added.  This could have unintended and very serious consequences to the child contracts.

## Code Snippet
The storage gap is essential for upgradeable contract because “It allows us to freely add new state variables in the future without compromising the storage compatibility with existing deployments”. 

This contract are intended to be upgradeable contracts in the code base:

[L1CrossDomainMessenger.sol](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts/contracts/L1/messaging/L1CrossDomainMessenger.sol#L20-L28)
[Optimist.sol](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-periphery/contracts/universal/op-nft/Optimist.sol)
[SystemDictator.sol](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/deployment/SystemDictator.sol)
[SystemConfig.sol](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/SystemConfig.sol)

## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
Recommend adding appropriate storage gap at the end of upgradeable storage contracts such as the below. Please reference OpenZeppelin upgradeable contract templates.
`uint256[50] private __gap;`