
- [212.md](0-system-findings/1-processed/0-false/212.md): #false
  - **Description:** Lack of Sanitization in StandardBridge Allows Harmful Contract Interactions
  - **Reason:** This issue is false. Using a `_localToken` that is not a valid token *is* a footgun, but it is up to the user to ensure that they are using the `StandardBridge` correctly and with tokens that will not be taken out of the bridge (i.e. rebasing tokens, tokens from other bridges, etc.).

---

Robert

medium

# Lack of Sanitization in StandardBridge Allows Harmful Contract Interactions

## Summary
StandardBridge is used to bridge ERC20s and Ether from L1 to L2 or vice versa. This contract is not meant to interact with anything other than ERC20s, although users may enter arbitrary contracts for it to interact with through the ERC20 bridging process and it does not check to verify if the contract is an ERC20.

A user can enter any contract they want, and the StandardBridge will call out to it in a transferFrom call or a transfer call. While I am not worried about purposefully malicious contracts, I am worried about legitimate contracts that happen to use these functions but are not intended to be used by the bridge.

As a known but less harmful case, for example, if a CryptoKitty got stuck in the contract a malicious actor could steal it by calling transferFrom, transferring in a high ID NFT, then transferring back and withdrawing the original one. What seems currently benign in that scenario can turn much more harmful in other cases. 

The worst that I think is fairly likely at the moment would be if users bridge tokens to Optimism that were created by another bridge. If this bridge has the same mint/burn functionality on their tokens as the OptimismMintable tokens do, and if it uses the fairly common `transfer(to, amount)` method with a benign fallback and no transferFrom, it would be trivial for a malicious actor to directly steal all of those tokens from the Optimism bridge. Other problems could arise in different scenarios: GMX tokens use an architecture where their staking contracts don't need approval to withdraw tokens from an address, which can lead to equally damaging hacks.

## Vulnerability Detail
To go over the scenario of bridge tokens being stolen:
1. Malicious actor calls the StandardBridge on L1 with the bridge contract as the local token.
2. Because the bridge does not have a `transferFrom` function, the call to `transferFrom` goes to the fallback.
3. Malicious actor bridges back from L2 to L1 after the deposit is made.
4. When withdrawal occurs, the `transfer` function on the bridge is called with address and uint256 parameters, resulting in tokens that that bridge had minted being completely burned from the StandardBridge and sent elsewhere.

While this is a hypothetical, there are currently many bridges live that almost fit all of this criteria, and Optimism doesn't have any power over how dangerous this vulnerability could get.

## Impact
I would probably classify this as medium because it currently doesn't put too much at risk, but all it would take to make it a high severity is another protocol being found that can result in user funds being lost.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/407f97b9d13448b766624995ec824d3059d4d4f6/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/universal/StandardBridge.sol#L411

Displays the lack of sanitization regarding what local token is.

## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
Adding a simple check to see whether the local token contract has a decimals variable on initiate and finalize bridging should keep all ERC20s passing while disallowing the vast majority of non-ERC20 contracts that could otherwise cause problems.