
- [250.md](0-system-findings/1-processed/0-false/250.md): #false
  - **Description:** Validate the `outputRoot` consistently
  - **Reason:** This is a non-issue. The `proveWithdrawalTransaction` function validates that the `_l2OutputIndex` passed corresponds to an existing output proposal in the `L2OutputOracle` *and* that the `_outputRootProof` passed hashes to the `outputRoot` returned by the `L2OutputOracle`. In addition, the `_tx` passed is verified for inclusion within the `_outputRootProof`'s `messagePasserStorageRoot` via the passed `_withdrawalProof`.

---

ak1

medium

# validate the `outputRoot` consistently

## Summary
We observed that the outputRoot is not validated in all the places.

while the `outputRoot`  is validated in `L2OutputOracle.sol` in [Line ](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/L2OutputOracle.sol#L182) during the `proposeL2Output`
But, not in OptimismPortal.sol in the function `proveWithdrawalTransaction`. refer the [lines](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/OptimismPortal.sol#L176-L179)

## Vulnerability Detail

Refer the summary section.

## Impact

Since the function `proveWithdrawalTransaction` is external, malicious user could call the proveWithdrawalTransaction function by crafting the the input parameters in following places which will not revert in all the validating places.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/OptimismPortal.sol#L193-L223

As a result, there will be plenty of transactions loaded in provenWithdrawals mapping.

provenWithdrawals  is public function, the values will be stored in contract state which could consume gas by sitting idle. No one will be there to prove and complete the transaction.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/OptimismPortal.sol#L176-L186

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

We suggest to validate the `outputRoot` consistently in all the places.
