
- [309.md](processed/false/309.md): #false
  - **Description:** Compiler versions
  - **Reason:** We are not vulnerable because none of our structs have statically-sized arrays (let alone calldata)

---

ak1

high

# Known issues with compiler versions used to compile the contracts

## Summary

There are certain known issues that are fixed in the latest compiler version of > 0.8.15.

Since the contracts are using the version <= 0.8.15, these addressed issues in the latest version will not be there in 0.8.15.

## Vulnerability Detail

Known issue in 0.8.15 version compiler.

Most of the L1 and L2 contracts are using the compiler version 0.8.15

From the solidity docs, one the issue is related to abi.encode family of functions.  For full technical detail, refer the below link.

https://blog.soliditylang.org/2022/08/08/calldata-tuple-reencoding-head-overflow-bug/

The contracts fulfills all the below criteria to be a vulnerable,

1. The last component of the tuple is a (potentially nested) statically-sized calldata array with the most base type being either uint or bytes32. E.g. bytes32[10] or uint[2][2][2].     `bytes or bytes32 is used in the contracts`
2. The tuple contains at least one dynamic component. E.g. bytes or a struct containing a dynamic array.
3. The code is using ABI coder v2, which is the default since Solidity 0.8.0.

below known issue could affect the bytes.sol since it is related to inline assembly.

https://blog.soliditylang.org/2022/09/08/storage-write-removal-before-conditional-termination/

Known issue related to compiler version 0.6.0

This version of compiler is used in the oracle.sol contract from op-geth.
https://blog.soliditylang.org/2022/06/15/dirty-bytes-array-to-storage-bug/

This can happen when trying to push the  empty admin address (zero), in below function call. As the admin list is loaded into memory and stored in storage.

    constructor(address[] memory _adminlist, uint _sectionSize, uint _processConfirms, uint _threshold) public {
        for (uint i = 0; i < _adminlist.length; i++) {
            admins[_adminlist[i]] = true;
            adminList.push(_adminlist[i]);
        }
        sectionSize = _sectionSize;
        processConfirms = _processConfirms;
        threshold = _threshold;
    }

## Impact

Contracts would suffer by the issues that are addressed in the latest compiler version.

Kindly refer the below link to know more about the known issues.

https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.18/bugs.html

## Code Snippet

For 0.8.15 related places

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/L1ERC721Bridge.sol#L77-L97

CrossDomainMessenger.sol - in the  function `sendMessage`

StandardBridge.sol - in the function `_initiateBridgeETH`, `_initiateBridgeERC20`


## Tool used

Manual Review, Solidity documentation.

## Recommendation

We suggest to use the latest version of compiler either 0.8.16 or 0.8.17 For all the contracts.
