
- [296.md](processed/high/296.md): #high
  - **Description:** Reproving Lock Up
  - **Reason:** This finding is correct

---

Barichek

high

# Permanent freeze of withdrawal due to the impossibility of reproving

## Summary

The withdrawal may go into a state in which it cannot be finalized. This can happen in case an operator is malicious or block reorgs on L1/L2 happen.

## Vulnerability Detail

The `proveWithdrawalTransaction` function checks that a specific withdrawal transaction happens inside L2. It is expected, that user calls the function before state finalization, so L2 blocks reorg may happen.

Based on that, `proveWithdrawalTransaction` checks that withdraw transaction is not yet proven or allows to reprove it if a new proof has the same `_l2OutputIndex` and different `outputRoot`:

- [OptimismPortal.sol #L188-L199](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/3f4b3c328153a8aa03611158b6984d624b17c1d9/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/OptimismPortal.sol#L188-L199):

```solidity=
// We generally want to prevent users from proving the same withdrawal multiple times
// because each successive proof will update the timestamp. A malicious user can take
// advantage of this to prevent other users from finalizing their withdrawal. However,
// since withdrawals are proven before an output root is finalized, we need to allow users
// to re-prove their withdrawal only in the case that the output root for their specified
// output index has been updated.
require(
    provenWithdrawal.timestamp == 0 ||
        (_l2OutputIndex == provenWithdrawal.l2OutputIndex &&
            outputRoot != provenWithdrawal.outputRoot),
    "OptimismPortal: withdrawal hash has already been proven"
);
```

So in case the `outputRoot` was not finalized, the user may reprove the withdrawal, as stated in the comment of the code. However, there is no way to reprove the withdrawal transaction if the finalized `outputRoot` with index `L2OutputIndex` does not include L2 withdrawal (while later `outputRoot`s includes it). This will lead to a complete freeze of the withdrawal.

Please note, that the withdrawal may have the same `withdrawHash` after reorg. Specifically, if the relative position of the withdrawals remains the same, but they belong to different L2 blocks, their hashes will not change, but the `L2OutputIndex`s became different.

For a better understanding, you can see the example. In this example we assume that the operator is malicious, but **the trustless operator scenario is just a general blocks reorg case**:

Let's Alice wants to make a withdrawal. She signs & sends withdrawal transaction. The optimism operator accepts the transaction and includes it to the  "bad" L2 block (block that may be challenged) with Alice's transaction. Alice sees that block is published and calls `proveWithdrawalTransaction`. The withdrawal transaction was proven. Challenger sees that the published block is incorrect and challenges it. As a result optimism operator may replace the blocks, which were challenged. Moreover, the optimism operator may out the Alices transaction in the different block (`_l2OutputIndex` will be different), but with the same withdrawal nonce (and, sequentially, the same hash). Now, the Alices transaction is included in a different block (and has a different `_l2OutputIndex`), but the withdrawal hash is already proven for the previous `_l2OutputIndex` with a different `outputRoot`. Alice is not able to reprove the withdrawal inclusion and, therefore, is not able to execute its withdrawal. All in all, Alice lost the withdrawal funds.

## Impact

The withdrawal may go into a state in which it cannot be finalized. This can happen in case an operator is malicious or block reorgs on L1/L2 happen.

This leads to a freeze of the user funds. Although the system is currently capable of being upgraded by a trusted entity and the funds can be returned, in the long term of a decentralized solution, this error is comparable in severity to a complete theft of funds.

## Code Snippet

- https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/3f4b3c328153a8aa03611158b6984d624b17c1d9/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/OptimismPortal.sol#L188-L199
- https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/3f4b3c328153a8aa03611158b6984d624b17c1d9/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/OptimismPortal.sol#L281-L293

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Change the mentioned `require` statement in the following manner:

```solidity=
require(
    provenWithdrawal.timestamp == 0
    || (provenWithdrawal.l2OutputIndex >= L2_ORACLE.nextOutputIndex())
    || (L2_ORACLE.getL2Output(provenWithdrawal.l2OutputIndex) != provenWithdrawal.outputRoot),
    "OptimismPortal: withdrawal hash has already been proven"
);
```