
- [259.md](processed/false/go/259.md): #false
  - **Description:** Sequencer address update requires restart
  - **Reason:** We deliberately decided to only update the sequencer address on restart.
  - **Action:** No action

---

shw

medium

# Rollup nodes fail to update the sequencer address from the L1 system config event

## Summary

Rollup nodes fail to update the sequencer address from the L1 system config event. The sequencer address update does not apply to running nodes unless they restart services.

## Vulnerability Detail

The `ProcessSystemConfigUpdateLogEvent()` function in the `op-node/rollup/derive/system_config.go` file is responsible for updating system configurations according to the events emitted on L1. However, when the sequencer address is updated, the rollup node ignores the event (see L117-L119).

Instead, the sequencer address (i.e., `p2pBlockSignerAddr`) is set by the runtime config in the `Load()` function in the `op-node/node/runtime_config.go` file. The rollup node directly reads the storage slot of the L1 system config contract to get the sequencer address.

However, by looking through the codebase, we may notice that the `Load()` function is only invoked in the `initRuntimeConfig()` function of the `op-node/node/node.go` file. The `initRuntimeConfig()` function is only used in the `init()` function when a new `OpNode` is created. In order words, the rollup node only loads and configures the sequencer address upon start. If the sequencer address is updated after a rollup node is initialized, the node cannot update the address.

## Impact

The update of the sequencer address in the L1 system config contract will not apply to the already-running rollup nodes. They have to restart to load the new sequencer address. If they don't, there will be an inconsistency between them and those who start after the sequencer address update. The running nodes will reject the unsafe blocks from others since they disagree on the sequencer address (see `op-node/p2p/gossip.go#L264-L270`).

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/3f4b3c328153a8aa03611158b6984d624b17c1d9/op-node/rollup/derive/system_config.go#L117-L119
https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/3f4b3c328153a8aa03611158b6984d624b17c1d9/op-node/node/runtime_config.go#L69-L80

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Consider reloading to update the sequencer address when receiving the system config event.