
- [115.md](0-system-findings/1-processed/1-false-but-actionable/solidity/115.md): #false
  - **Description:** If the gasLimit parameter is set when bridging ERC20/ERC721/ETH from L2 to L1, the user's funds would be lost since there may never be enough gas limit left to successfully complete the withdrawal/bridge.
  - **Reason:** This is true, but does not deviate from the intended behavior of the bridge and is not an error in the implementation. This is entirely up to the user to put in valid inputs. This can be said about any inputs to the system for example bridging to the zero address, or entering the wrong token. There are many ways for a user to lose their money and we cannot prevent them all. Thus, this is false but actionable where we can add additional checks.
  - #action:

---

0xdeadbeef

high

# Users will lose their ERC20/ERC721/ETH funds when withdrawing/bridging to L1 if the gasLimit is to high

## Summary

There is no upper bounds check that the `gasLimit` is not higher then the block gas limit of L1 when withdrawing from L2 using: 
1. Bridge withdrawals
2. Direct withdrawals from `L2ToL1MessagePasser`. 

If by mistake a user/protocols sets the gas limit to a high value, their funds will be lost.

## Vulnerability Detail

There is no upper bounds check for gas limit when withdrawing from L2 using `L2ToL1MessagePasser` or the `L2StandardBridge`. A user specifies the `_gasLimit`.
`L2ToL1MessagePasser`:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L2/L2ToL1MessagePasser.sol#L98
`L2StandardBridge`:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L2/L2StandardBridge.sol#L162

On L1 after the withdrawal validation period has ended, the user will not be able to execute the withdrawal due to a check that the gas left in the transaction is more then the gasLimit:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/OptimismPortal.sol#L313-L316

## Impact

User ERC20/ERC721/ETH funds will be lost 

## Code Snippet

Added in description

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Either:
1. Set an upper bound limit  on the gas limit
3. Remove the requirement that checks if the gas limit holds on L1.
4. Allow the user to "fix" the gas limit if there is not enough gas 