
- [204.md](0-system-findings/1-processed/0-false/solidity/204.md): #low
  - **Description:** Address collision in cross - chain contract creation (breaks tooling)
  - **Reason:** This is correct, but is unexpected behavior external to the scope of the code. Thus, this is a low issue.
  - **Action:** Increment the nonce in the op-node to make transaction receipts use the correct nonce for contract creation on L1 -> L2 bridge.

---

Ro

medium

# Address collision in cross - chain contract creation (breaks tooling)

## Summary
When creating a contract from L1 (mainnet) to L2 (optimism) the nonce of the sender is kept at 0 in the context of the transaction receipt and thus the existing infrastructure (Etherscan) will incorrectly interpret the address of the new contract (creating a collision).

## Vulnerability Detail
It is possible to create a contract in Layer 2 from Layer 1 by sending a transaction to the optimism portal. 
This is the function of interest: 
```solidity
 function depositTransaction(
        address _to,
        uint256 _value,
        uint64 _gasLimit,
        bool _isCreation,
        bytes memory _data
    ) public payable metered(_gasLimit)
```

To create a contract the "_to" address needs to be set to "address(0x0), " the "_isCreation" needs to be set to "true" and the bytecode needs to be passed in the "_data" field. 

* The contract is then created through the "create" opcode, therefore the address is computed by hashing the nonce and the address of the sender. 

If the nonce is kept at 0 during some time of the execution, the new contract address will always be the same (nonce is always 0). 

NOTE: In reality, the new contract is created with the proper nonce (and the nonce is updated), but the receipt displays it wrongly and during a point in the execution is also kept at 0 so it breaks Etherscan, Blockscout and the rest of the block exploreres.



## Impact
Infrastructure tooling like Etherscan is the source of truth for most users, therefore having inconsistent data between these tools and Optimism is not recommended.

This bug causes existing tooling like Etherscan and Blockscout to display wrong data in the following ways:
 
1. The first contract created will always appear as the new contract in contract creation. 
See this link for reference: https://goerli-optimism.etherscan.io/address/0x5d7ee88447367b9212fa655dc863a1e83f7e189d

When the account 0x7d.. creates a new contract from Layer 1,  the address "0x5d.." will always appear as the new contract created.

2. It incorrectly displays contracts as EOA's
See this address on etherscan goerli optimism: 
https://goerli-optimism.etherscan.io/address/0x0a1c3c13c35275d030ff9fb660946cf2fca74ece
It appears to be a regular EOA, while in reality, it is a contract. 
Run the following command to verify: 
```console
cast code 0x0a1c3c13c35275d030ff9fb660946cf2fca74ece --rpc-url https://goerli.optimism.io
```

## Code Snippet 
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/OptimismPortal.sol#L358

## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
The nonce should be set to the sender's nonce from the op-node.
