Robert

medium

# Inexpensive DoS on OptimismPortal Contract

## Summary
OptimismPortal uses resource metering to allow only 8M gas to be used on L2 per Ethereum block. Once this limit within the Ethereum block is reached, no one else can make any OptimismPortal deposits. This 8M L2 gas only costs 43k or so gas on L1 to achieve. While some sort of limiting is necessary for these deposits, such a small amount of gas allowed per block and at such low prices before reverting other users' transactions results in a very simple DoS that can block all deposits to L2.

If a single malicious actor wants to grief Optimism, they can setup a system to frontrun deposits into L2 then use up all 8M guaranteed gas on the block that the deposit request would otherwise be included. At 43k gas required per denied block, if we assume an average of 1 out of 10 blocks include an attempted deposit into Optimism and an average cost of 20 gwei, a malicious actor can shut down deposits into the network for 0.6 Ether per day.

## Vulnerability Detail
Steps are as follows:
1. User sends transaction to deposit onto L2
2. Malicious actor has a program that sees transaction in mempool
3. Malicious actor sends their own deposit that uses an 8M gas gas limit
4. The OptimismPortal ResourceMetering records that
5. The user's transaction reverts because there is no longer enough gas in the block
6. Malicious actor keeps going to stop use of Optimism

## Impact
Medium, potentially high given how simple it is to execute and the impact it has on the functionality of the network.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/a49e1040b50f4eb465235367695bffe19eefe903/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/ResourceMetering.sol#L33 is the max resource limit with https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/a49e1040b50f4eb465235367695bffe19eefe903/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/ResourceMetering.sol#L131 being where it is added up for every transaction on the block.

Here are two transactions demonstrating the DoS: https://goerli.etherscan.io/tx/0xa1e0ba097961a345a7356cb9b2422cb92713e830027e6efad2724c8eafeff290 https://goerli.etherscan.io/tx/0xd059f95355dad399fe6adb1a5b39bb5e971ff8f51dd90911470dd54c9dfb0d00

The first uses up all guaranteed gas, making the second revert.

## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
There are a few different solutions to this while still disallowing spam from L1 to L2. The biggest is I believe 8M gas is far lower than it can be. Unless I'm misunderstanding, I believe there are 6 Optimism blocks per Ethereum block and each of the Optimism blocks can use more than 8M of gas. So a max resource increase alone could help.

I also think after this max resource increase you can increase the cost at a higher acceleration than you currently do. Normal use shouldn't have people using 50M+ gas every single block in deposits, so if the network is consistently getting near that use it's unlikely it's innocent. In that case, prices could rise exponentially higher than they do now.

If desired, there are more complicated things that could be done to avoid this as well like prioritizing low gas limit transactions (as those will almost never be spam or cost will be many times higher), or creating a queue for transactions.