obront

medium

# Batcher frames are incorrectly decoded leading to consensus split

## Summary

There is an error in the implementation of how frames are decoded, which will allow invalid frames to be accepted. This can allow a malicious sequencer to cause a consensus split between op-node implementations and the (correct) reference implementation. 

## Vulnerability Detail

Optimism implements a highly efficient derivation scheme based on compression of L2 data that is sent to an L1 address. The [spec](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/develop/specs/derivation.md#l2-chain-derivation-specification) clearly defines how this works. Channels are split into frames, each one encoded as defined [here](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/develop/specs/derivation.md#frame-format). Frames will be aggregated by the derivation driver.

Docs state that:
> `All data in a frame is fixed-size, except the frame_data. The fixed overhead is 16 + 2 + 4 + 1 = 23 bytes. Fixed-size frame metadata avoids a circular dependency with the target total data length, to simplify packing of frames with varying content length.`

Specifically:
> `is_last is a single byte with a value of 1 if the frame is the last in the channel, 0 if there are frames in the channel. Any other value makes the frame invalid (it must be ignored by the rollup node).`

Clearly, `is_last` is mandatory as per the specs. However, if we look at the code it will accept a frame even if `is_last` is not supplied.

Decoding of the frame is done in `frame.go`, in the `UnmarshalBinary` function. After reading the frame data, only the last byte remains.
```go
if isLastByte, err := r.ReadByte(); err != nil && err != io.EOF {
	return fmt.Errorf("error reading final byte: %w", err)
} else if isLastByte == 0 {
	f.IsLast = false
	return err
} else if isLastByte == 1 {
	f.IsLast = true
	return err
} else {
	return errors.New("invalid byte as is_last")
}
```
If the `ByteReader` object is empty, reading the next byte will return an `EOF` and the error clause is skipped. The result of `ReadByte` when an error occurs is `undefined`, however in all Go setups we've tested `isLastByte` is zero. This means it sets `f.IsLast = false` and returns the `EOF`.

Back in `ParseFrames` which calls `UnmarshalBinary`, the `EOF` is ignored and the frame is accepted:
```go
for buf.Len() > 0 {
	var f Frame
	if err := (&f).UnmarshalBinary(buf); err != io.EOF && err != nil {
		return nil, err
	}
	frames = append(frames, f)
}
```
So, it is demonstrated that an invalid frame is accepted by the Optimism implementation, provided the frame is the last one in the frames buffer. The impact is that a malicious sequencer can cause a consensus split between correct implementations and the reference implementation. It has been defined by the rules as Medium severity:
```go
- Causing a consensus failure
- Explanation: There is one sequencer op-node submitting transaction batches to L1, but many verifier op-nodes will read these batches and check the results of its execution. The sequencer and verifiers must remain in consensus, even in the event of an L1 reorg.
```
All that is needed is to send in different frame packages two frames of a channel, omit the `is_last` byte in the first frame and make sure it is the last frame in the package.

## Impact

Malicious sequencer can easily cause a consensus split by taking advantage of the incorrect frame reading logic in op-node.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/407f97b9d13448b766624995ec824d3059d4d4f6/op-node/rollup/derive/frame.go#L93

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

In `UnmarshalBinary`, return a non-EOF error when `is_last` byte does not exist.